README.md, before:

# T3 Chat Clone - Cloneathon Edition 🚀

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

**This project is an open-source clone of the [T3.Chat](https://t3.chat) application, built as a submission for the [T3 ChatCloneathon Competition](https://cloneathon.t3.chat).**

This repository contains a modern, multi-LLM chat application featuring real-time streaming, robust authentication, and a secure, scalable backend. It's designed to be a high-performance, production-ready chat interface.

[**Live Demo (Coming Soon)**](#) | [**Cloneathon Page**](https://cloneathon.t3.chat) | [**Original T3.Chat**](https://t3.chat)

For MVP, focus was on basic features but smooth UX and performance.

---

## ✨ Core Features

- **🤖 Multi-LLM Support**: using the Vercel AI SDK v4, you can use any model supported by the SDK.
- **🔒 Secure & Private**: End-to-end security with Clerk for authentication and Convex's Row-Level Security (RLS) to ensure data privacy.
- **🚀 Fast local first caching**: using custom hooks on top of Convex's queries

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

This project leverages a modern, type-safe, and scalable technology stack.

- **Framework**: [Next.js 15](https://nextjs.org/) (React 19)
- **Backend & Database**: [Convex](https://convex.dev/) (Real-time serverless backend)
- **Authentication**: [Clerk](https://clerk.com/)
- **AI Integration**: [Vercel AI SDK v4](https://sdk.vercel.ai/)
- **UI**: [ShadCN UI](https://ui.shadcn.com/) & [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **Language**: [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) (Strict Mode)
- **Containerization (Dev)**: [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) & Docker Compose

## 🚧 Roadmap

Didn't had time to implement but wanted to:

- [ ] smooth streaming
- [ ] stream error handling
- [ ] input save per thread (in case of error, page reload etc)
- [ ] code colorization
- [ ] thread renaming
- [ ] stream resumability
- [ ] favorite threads
- [ ] web search
- [ ] better optimized Markdown rendering
- [ ] public shared threads
- [ ] common primitive widget tool (llm) to display data (list, images, etc)
- [ ] clean my absolute mess of a codebase because I rushed it

## 🏛️ Architecture Highlights

- **Server-Side AI Operations**: All AI SDK calls are handled in Next.js API Routes (`/api/chat`) to protect API keys and manage provider logic securely.
- **Row-Level Security (RLS)**: Utilizes a custom RLS system within Convex (`queryWithRLS`, `mutationWithRLS`) to provide bulletproof data isolation between users automatically.
- **Optimistic UI Updates**: Messages appear instantly in the UI while being sent to the server in the background for a snappy user experience.
- **Local Caching**: All data returned by convex query hooks are cached locally for fast load with good UX of stale data.
- **Component-Based Architecture**: A clean separation of concerns with reusable components for UI, chat logic, and authentication.

## 🚀 Getting Started

This project is fully containerized. The only local dependencies you need are `Docker` (with `docker-compose`) and `make`.

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/PaulSenon/t3-chat-cloneathon.git
   cd t3-chat-cloneathon
   ```

2. **Set up environment variables:**
   Copy the example environment file and fill in your keys for Convex, Clerk, OpenAI, and Anthropic.

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env.local
   ```

3. **Install and Build:**
   This command builds the Docker container and installs all `pnpm` dependencies inside it.

   ```bash
   make install
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > It will prompt you for convex setup.
   > Ctrl+C to exit.

4. **Run the Development Server:**
   This starts the Next.js development server inside the container.

   ```bash
   make dev
   ```

   The application will be available at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

### Available `make` Commands

- `make help`: Show all available commands.
- `make dev`: Start the development server.
- `make run cmd="..."`: Run any command inside the development container (e.g., `make run cmd="pnpm add package-name"`).
- `make bash`: Get a shell inside the running container.
- `make clean`: Stop and remove all project-related containers and volumes.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE.TXT) file for details.

---

_Developed by [Paul Senon](https://github.com/PaulSenon) for the T3 ChatCloneathon._
_Connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/paulsenon/) or [Twitter/X](https://x.com/isaaacdotdev)._

Commit message:

within 24h after deadline hotfixes 2: crappy yet better optimistic updates avoiding race writing with api

README.md, after:

# T3 Chat Clone - Cloneathon Edition 🚀

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

**This project is an open-source clone of the [T3.Chat](https://t3.chat) application, built as a submission for the [T3 ChatCloneathon Competition](https://cloneathon.t3.chat).**

This repository contains a modern, multi-LLM chat application featuring real-time streaming, robust authentication, and a secure, scalable backend. It's designed to be a high-performance, production-ready chat interface.

[**Live Demo (Coming Soon)**](#) | [**Cloneathon Page**](https://cloneathon.t3.chat) | [**Original T3.Chat**](https://t3.chat)

For MVP, focus was on basic features but smooth UX and performance.

---

## ✨ Core Features

- **🤖 Multi-LLM Support**: using the Vercel AI SDK v4, you can use any model supported by the SDK.
- **🔒 Secure & Private**: End-to-end security with Clerk for authentication and Convex's Row-Level Security (RLS) to ensure data privacy.
- **🚀 Fast local first caching**: using custom hooks on top of Convex's queries

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

This project leverages a modern, type-safe, and scalable technology stack.

- **Framework**: [Next.js 15](https://nextjs.org/) (React 19)
- **Backend & Database**: [Convex](https://convex.dev/) (Real-time serverless backend)
- **Authentication**: [Clerk](https://clerk.com/)
- **AI Integration**: [Vercel AI SDK v4](https://sdk.vercel.ai/)
- **UI**: [ShadCN UI](https://ui.shadcn.com/) & [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **Language**: [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) (Strict Mode)
- **Containerization (Dev)**: [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) & Docker Compose

## 🚧 Roadmap

Didn't had time to implement but wanted to:
*So I might work on this in the future after the competition*

- [ ] smooth streaming
- [ ] stream error/abort handling (with retry)
- [ ] input save per thread (in case of error, page reload etc)
- [ ] schema refactoring to have messages as a separate table
- [ ] code colorization (as a lazy progressive enhancement on top of markdown)
- [ ] markdown **stream rendering** & caching for smooth render of streaming responses & super fast rendering of cached responses
- [ ] thread rename/pin
- [ ] stream resumability
- [ ] web search capabilities
- [ ] public shared threads (as a static page for snappy sharing)
- [ ] common primitive widget tool (llm) to display data (list, images, etc)
- [ ] auto mode (that take the best llm for the task based on context, prices, context size, etc)
- [ ] clean my absolute mess of a codebase because I rushed it
    - [ ] build a better useQuery wrapper with both stale (cold caching) and optimistic updates locally (without optimistic mutation to avoid race mutation when need optimistic updates on queries that should be done on api route)

## 🏛️ Architecture Highlights

- **Server-Side AI Operations**: All AI SDK calls are handled in Next.js API Routes (`/api/chat`) to protect API keys and manage provider logic securely.
- **Row-Level Security (RLS)**: Utilizes a custom RLS system within Convex (`queryWithRLS`, `mutationWithRLS`) to provide bulletproof data isolation between users automatically.
- **Optimistic UI Updates**: Messages appear instantly in the UI while being sent to the server in the background for a snappy user experience.
- **Local Caching**: All data returned by convex query hooks are cached locally for fast load with good UX of stale data.
- **Component-Based Architecture**: A clean separation of concerns with reusable components for UI, chat logic, and authentication.

## 🚀 Getting Started

This project is fully containerized. The only local dependencies you need are `Docker` (with `docker-compose`) and `make`.

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/PaulSenon/t3-chat-cloneathon.git
   cd t3-chat-cloneathon
   ```

2. **Set up environment variables:**
   Copy the example environment file and fill in your keys for Convex, Clerk, OpenAI, and Anthropic.

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env.local
   ```

3. **Install and Build:**
   This command builds the Docker container and installs all `pnpm` dependencies inside it.

   ```bash
   make install
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > It will prompt you for convex setup.
   > Ctrl+C to exit.

4. **Run the Development Server:**
   This starts the Next.js development server inside the container.

   ```bash
   make dev
   ```

   The application will be available at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

### Available `make` Commands

- `make help`: Show all available commands.
- `make dev`: Start the development server.
- `make run cmd="..."`: Run any command inside the development container (e.g., `make run cmd="pnpm add package-name"`).
- `make bash`: Get a shell inside the running container.
- `make clean`: Stop and remove all project-related containers and volumes.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE.TXT) file for details.

---

_Developed by [Paul Senon](https://github.com/PaulSenon) for the T3 ChatCloneathon._
_Connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/paulsenon/) or [Twitter/X](https://x.com/isaaacdotdev)._
